This proof sets out to establish rules for the formation of bases and their impact on structuring a topology, as well as the nature of intersections between distinct bases. 

It starts by proposing the definition of a basis, B, a collection of subsets of a certain set X. According to this definition, for every element, x, in X, there exists a subset B within our basis B, such that x is in B. Furthermore, anytime we take two subsets, B1 and B2 from our basis and consider an element x in their intersection, we can always find another subset, B3 in the basis, such that x is in B3 and B3 is situated within the intersection of B1 and B2.

Moving forward, the proposition goes on to define what it means to generate a topology, T, given a basis. Under this definition, a subset U of X is designated as "open" if for every element, x, in U, we can find a subset B from our basis, such that x belongs to B and B is contained in U.

Lastly, the proof discusses the intersection of two bases, B1 and B2. It states that for any subset B1 in B1 and any subset B2 in B2, their intersection is equal to the union of all those subsets in B1 which are contained fully within the intersection of B1 and B2.

In simple terms, this proof is laying out a framework to understand how a topology is formed given a basis and how intersections work within and between separate bases. To form a topology, we need a basis where every element of the larger set can be associated with a subset in the basis, and where intersections of subsets have particular properties. Moreover, if we have two distinct bases, their intersection behaves according to certain rules.