This proof argues the approximation of any real number to a rational number, using Dirichlet's approximation theorem, a demonstration using Dirichlet's Principle, then a conclusion on the case for irrational numbers. 

The proof begins with an argument that to define a sort of approximation theory (A), we have to assume x is a real number. In this case, there exists a function k(x) greater than zero. For each natural number n, we can find infinitely many pairs of integers (p, q), where p and q are coprimes (their greatest common divisor is 1), such that the absolute difference between x and the fraction p/q is less than k(x) divided by the value of q raised to the power n.

Next, it brings in the concept of Dirichlet's Principle (D), which states that for any real number x and any natural number Q, there exists a pair of an integer p and a natural number q within the limit of Q. The absolute difference between x and the fraction p/q is less than 1 divided by q squared.

Then it outlines a presentation (B) using Dirichlet's Box Principle. We define a set F of natural numbers that includes from 0 up to Q. The number of elements in F is Q+1. We then define another set P as the integer part of the product qx for each number q in F. P nestles in the interval [0, 1) and also has Q+1 elements. We then break [0, 1) into small partitions. By Dirichlet's Box Principle, there exist two numbers q1 and q2 such that the fractional part of both their products with x falls in the same interval. This implies that their difference will be less than 1/Q.

Next, this proof incorporates the process of estimating fractions (F). If there happens to exist an integer p and a calculated value q (the difference between q2 and q1), such that q is between 1 and Q inclusive. If the absolute difference of (q2-q1)x and integer p is less than 1/Q, then we have another instance where the absolute difference between x and the fraction p/q is less than 1/q². These values (p, q) again are pairs of integers.

Lastly, this proof explores the case of irrational numbers (I). If x does not belong to the set of rational numbers, then these estimations are possible infinitely many times. That is, for irrational numbers, we can find an infinite collection of pairs of integers (p, q) where the absolute difference between x and the fraction p/q is less than 1 divided by squared q.