# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Banach-Alaoglu_Theorem/Lemma_4


This article needs to be linked to other articles.In particular: Banach-Alaoglu Theorem/Proof 2You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by adding these links.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{MissingLinks}} from the code.
Lemma for Banach-Alaoglu Theorem
Let $X$ be a normed vector space.
Denote by $B$ the closed unit ball in $X$.
Let $X^*$ be the dual of $X$.
Denote by $B^*$ the closed unit ball in $X^*$.
Let:

$\map \FF B = \closedint {-1} 1^B$
be the topological space of functions from $B$ to $\closedint {-1} 1$
By Tychonoff's Theorem:

$\map \FF B$
is compact with respect to the product topology.
We define the restriction map:

$R: B^* \to \map \FF B$
by:

$\map R \psi = \psi \restriction_B$

$R$ is a homeomorphism from $B^*$ with the weak* topology to its image:

$R \sqbrk {B^*}$
seen as a subset of $\map \FF B$ with the product topology.


Proof
Firstly, $R$ is an injection.
Indeed, let $\psi_1, \psi_2 \in B^\ast$ such that $\map R {\psi_1} = \map R {\psi_2}$.
Then, for all $x \in X \setminus \set 0$ we have:














\(\ds \map {\psi_1} x\)

\(=\)







\(\ds \norm x \map {\psi_1} {\frac x {\norm x} }\)





Definition of Linear Functional














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \norm x \map {\map R {\psi_1} } {\frac x {\norm x} }\)





as $\frac x {\norm x} \in B$














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \norm x \map {\map R {\psi_2} } {\frac x {\norm x} }\)





by hypothesis














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \norm x \map {\psi_1} {\frac x {\norm x} }\)





as $\frac x {\norm x} \in B$














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \map {\psi_2} x\)





Definition of Linear Functional



In addition, $\map {\psi_1} 0 = \map {\psi_2} 0 = 0 $.
Thus, $\psi_1 = \psi_2$.
$\Box$

In view of Inverse of Homeomorphism is Homeomorphism, it suffices to show that:

$R^{-1} : R \sqbrk {B^\ast} \to B^\ast$
is a homeomorphism.
Observe that $X^\ast$ is Hausdorff space by Weak-* Topology is Hausdorff.
Thus $B^\ast$ is also Hausdorff space by Subspace of Hausdorff Space is Hausdorff.
Recall that $\map \FF B$ is compact.
In addition, by Lemma 3, $R \sqbrk {B^\ast}$ is closed.
Thus $R \sqbrk {B^\ast}$ is compact by Closed Subspace of Compact Space is Compact.
Thus, in view of Continuous Bijection from Compact to Hausdorff is Homeomorphism, it suffices to show that:

$R^{-1} : R \sqbrk {B^\ast} \to B^\ast$
is continuous.

Recall Definition of Weak-* Topology and Definition of Topology Generated by Synthetic Sub-Basis
Let $\psi_0 \in X^\ast$, $x \in X$, and $r \in \R_{>0}$ be arbitrary.
Let

$\map N {\psi_0 ; x ; r } := \set { \psi \in B^\ast : \size {\map \psi x - \map {\psi_0} x } < r } $
Observe, if $x \ne 0$, we have:

$\map N {\psi_0 ; x ; r } = \map N {\psi_0 ; \frac x {\norm x} ; \frac r {\norm x} }$
Without loss of generality, therefore, we may assume $x \in B$.
Now, it suffices to check that $R \sqbrk { \map N {\psi_0 ; x ; r } }$ is open in $R \sqbrk {B^\ast}$.
This can be seen as:














\(\ds R \sqbrk { \map N {\psi_0 ; x ; r } }\)

\(=\)







\(\ds \set { \map R \psi  : \psi \in B^\ast,\; \map \psi x \in \openint {\map {\psi_0} x - r} {\map {\psi_0} x + r} }\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \set { \map R \psi  : \psi \in B^\ast,\; \map \psi x \in \map {I_r} {\map {\psi_0} x} }\)





since $\size {\map \psi x} \le 1$, as $\psi \in B^\ast$ and $x \in B$














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \set { \map R \psi  : \psi \in B^\ast,\; \map {\map R {\psi} } x \in \map {I_r} {\map {\psi_0} x} }\)





Definition of $R$














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \set { \map R \psi  : \psi \in B^\ast,\; \map {\pr_x} {\map R \psi} \in \map {I_r} {\map {\psi_0} x} }\)





Definition of $\pr_x$














\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds R \sqbrk {B^\ast} \cap \pr_x^{-1} \sqbrk {\map {I_r} {\map {\psi_0} x} }\)









where:

$\map {I_r} {\map {\psi_0} x} :=  \openint {\map {\psi_0} x - r} {\map {\psi_0} x + r} \cap \closedint {-1} 1$

Although this article appears correct, it's inelegant. There has to be a better way of doing it.In particular: More detailsYou can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by redesigning it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Improve}} from the code.If you would welcome a second opinion as to whether your work is correct, add a call to {{Proofread}} the page.
$\blacksquare$





