# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Cauchy%27s_Group_Theorem/Proof_1



Theorem
Let $G$ be a finite group whose identity is $e$.
Let $p$ be a prime number which divides the order of $G$.

Then $G$ has a subgroup of order $p$.


Proof

This page has been identified as a candidate for refactoring.In particular: extract lemmaUntil this has been finished, please leave {{Refactor}} in the code.
New contributors: Refactoring is a task which is expected to be undertaken by experienced editors only.

Because of the underlying complexity of the work needed, it is recommended that you do not embark on a refactoring task until you have become familiar with the structural nature of pages of $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Refactor}} from the code.
Lemma
Let $G$ be a finite abelian group whose identity is $e$.
Let $p$ be a prime number which divides the order of $G$.

Then $G$ has a subgroup of order $p$.


Proof of Lemma
Let $\order G$ be a prime number.
Then from Prime Group is Cyclic $G$ has a generator $\gen g$ such that $\order g = p$.

Now suppose $e \ne g \in G$.
Let $\order g = n$.
Let $p \divides n$.
Then by Subgroup of Finite Cyclic Group is Determined by Order the cyclic group $\gen g$ has an element $g$ of order $p$.

Suppose $p \nmid n$.
From Subgroup of Abelian Group is Normal, $\gen g$ is normal in $G$.
Consider the quotient group $G' = \dfrac G {\gen g}$.
As $p \nmid n$, $\gen e \subsetneq \gen g \subsetneq G$.
Thus $\order {G'} < \order G$.
But we have that $p \divides \order G$.

It follows by induction that $G'$ has an element $h'$ of order $p$.
Let $h$ be a preimage of $h'$ under the quotient epimorphism $\phi: G \to G'$.
Then:

$\paren {h'}^p = e'$
where $e'$ is the identity of $G'$.
Thus $h^p \in \gen g$ so $\paren {h^p}^n = \paren {h^n}^p = e$.
Thus either $h^n$ has order $p$ or $h^n = e$.
If $h^n = e$ then $\paren {h'}^n = e'$.
But since $p$ is the order of $h'$ it would follow that $p \divides n$, contrary to assumption.
$\Box$


This article needs to be tidied.Please fix formatting and $\LaTeX$ errors and inconsistencies. It may also need to be brought up to our standard house style.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Tidy}} from the code.

This article needs to be linked to other articles.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by adding these links.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{MissingLinks}} from the code.
We prove the theorem by induction on the order $\order G$.
The first few cases $\order G = 1,2,3$ are obvious. For the induction step, start with the class equation

$\order G = 1 + \order {C_2} + \cdots + \order {C_r}$
Since $p \divides \order G$, we must have $p \nmid \order {C_j}$ for some $j \geq 2$,
where $C_j$ are conjugacy classes in $G \setminus \set e$.
Let $x \in C_j$,
it follows that $p \divides \order {\map {C_G} x}$,
where $\map {C_G} x$ is the centralizer of $x$ in $G$,
since $\order {C_j} = \frac{\order G}{\order {\map {C_G} x}}$ by Number of Elements in Conjugacy Class Equals the Index of Centralizer.
If $\map {C_G} x \neq G$, then by induction $\map {C_G} x$ contains an element of order $p$, and this element also belongs to $G$.
Otherwise, $\map {C_G} x = G$, which implies that $x \in \map Z G$ (the center of $G$), and by choice $x \neq e$, so $\map Z G \neq \set e$.
Either $p \divides \order {\map Z G}$ or $p \nmid \order {\map Z G}$.
In the first case the proof reduces to lemma (the abelian case).
In the second case, by induction hypothesis to the quotient group $G / \map Z G$, there exists $x \in G$ such that the image $\bar{x} \in G / \map Z G$ has order $p$,
That is, $x^p \in \map Z G$ but $x \notin \map Z G$.
Let $X$ be the cyclic group generated by $x$.
Now the product $X \map Z G$ is abelian and has order divisible by $p$, so by lemma (the abelian case) it has an element of order $p$, and again this element also belongs to $G$.
This completes the induction step, and with it the proof.
$\blacksquare$


Sources
1966: Richard A. Dean: Elements of Abstract Algebra ... (previous) ... (next): $\S 1.10$: Theorem $31$




