# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Characterisation_of_Local_Rings


This page has been identified as a candidate for refactoring of basic complexity.In particular: Two results here; separate page for each, then the results can be transcluded back into this page.Until this has been finished, please leave {{Refactor}} in the code.
New contributors: Refactoring is a task which is expected to be undertaken by experienced editors only.

Because of the underlying complexity of the work needed, it is recommended that you do not embark on a refactoring task until you have become familiar with the structural nature of pages of $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Refactor}} from the code.
Theorem
Let $R$ be a ring.
Let $J \lhd R$ be a maximal ideal.

$(1): \quad$ If the set $R \setminus J$ is precisely the group of units $R^\times$ of $R$, then $\tuple {R, J}$ is a local ring.
$(2): \quad$ If $1 + x$ is a unit in $R$ for all $x \in J$ then $\tuple {R, J}$ is local.

This article, or a section of it, needs explaining.In particular: The specific interpretation of the notation $\tuple {R, J}$ is unclear. The usual notation for a ring is something like $\struct {R, +, \times}$.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by explaining it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Explain}} from the code.


Proof
$(1): \quad$ Suppose that $J$ is the set of non-units of $R$.
Then by Ideal of Unit is Whole Ring, every ideal not equal to $R$ is contained in $J$.
Therefore $J$ is the unique maximal ideal of $R$, so $\tuple {R, J}$ is local.

$(2): \quad$ Let $x \in R \setminus J$.
Then:

$J \subsetneq \map I {J \cup \set x} \subseteq R$
where $\map I S$ is the ideal generated by $S$.
Since $J$ is maximal, by definition, $x$ and $J$ generate all of $R$.
Therefore $t x + m = 1$ for some $m \in J$, $t \in R$.
Thus $t x = 1 - m \in 1 + J$ is a unit by hypothesis.
Therefore $x$ is a unit.
Now use part $(1)$.
$\blacksquare$





