# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Characterization_of_Positive_Element_of_Unital_C*-Algebra

Theorem
Let $\struct {A, \ast, \norm {\, \cdot \,} }$ be a unital $\text C^\ast$-algebra.
Let $a \in A$ be Hermitian. 
Let $t \ge 0$. 

Then if $\norm {a - t {\mathbf 1}_A} \le t$, $a$ is positive.
Conversely if $\norm a \le t$ and $a$ is positive, then $\norm {a - t {\mathbf 1}_A} \le t$. 


Proof
Let $B$ to be $\text C^\ast$-algebra generated by $\set { {\mathbf 1}_A, x}$. 
By C*-Algebra Generated by Commutative Self-Adjoint Set is Commutative, $B$ is commutative.
Further from Spectrum of Element of Unital C*-Subalgebra of Unital C*-Algebra we have $\map {\sigma_B} x = \map {\sigma_A} x$.
Let $\Phi_B$ be the spectrum of $B$.
From Gelfand-Naimark Theorem: Commutative Case: Unital, there exists an isometric unital $\ast$-algebra isomorphism $G : B \to \map \CC {\Phi_B}$.

Suppose that $\norm {a - t {\mathbf 1}_A} \le t$.
Since $G$ is isometric and unital, we have:

$\norm {a - t {\mathbf 1}_A} = \norm {\map G a - t}_\infty \le t$
where $\norm {\, \cdot \,}_\infty$ is the supremum norm on $\map \CC {\Phi_B}$.
Write $f = \map G a$ for brevity.
Since $G$ is a $\ast$-algebra isomorphism, $f$ is Hermitian.
Hence $\overline {\map f \phi} = \map f \phi$ for each $\phi \in \Phi_B$.
From Complex Number equals Conjugate iff Wholly Real, we then have $\map f \phi \in \R$ for each $\phi \in \Phi_B$.
Hence $\norm {f - t}_\infty \le t$ implies that $\map f \phi \in \closedint 0 {2 t}$ for each $\phi \in \Phi_B$.
From Spectrum of Element of Space of Continuous Functions on Compact Hausdorff Space, we therefore have $\map {\sigma_{\map \CC {\Phi_B} } } f \subseteq \closedint 0 {2 t}$.
Then, from Spectrum of Image of Element of Unital Algebra under Unital Algebra Homomorphism, we have:

$\map {\sigma_A} a = \map {\sigma_B} a = \map {\sigma_{\map \CC {\Phi_B} } } f \subseteq \closedint 0 {2 t} \subseteq \hointr 0 \infty$
Hence $a$ is positive.

Now suppose that $\norm a \le t$ and $a$ is positive.
Again write $f = \map G a$. 
From Spectrum of Image of Element of Unital Algebra under Unital Algebra Homomorphism we have:

$\map {\sigma_{\map \CC {\Phi_B} } } f = \map {\sigma_B} a = \map {\sigma_A} a$
So $\map {\sigma_{\map \CC {\Phi_B} } } f \subseteq \hointr 0 \infty$.
From Spectrum of Element of Space of Continuous Functions on Compact Hausdorff Space we therefore have:

$\set {\map f \phi : \phi \in \Phi_B} \subseteq \hointr 0 \infty$
Since $G$ is isometric, we have $\norm f_\infty \le t$. 
So $\map f \phi \in \closedint 0 t$ for each $\phi \in \Phi_B$. 
Hence $t - \map f \phi \in \closedint 0 t$ for each $\phi \in \Phi_B$.
We therefore have $\norm {t - \map G a}_\infty \le t$. 
Again since $G$ is an isometric unital $\ast$-algebra isomorphism, we have $\norm {a - t {\mathbf 1}_A} \le t$. 
$\blacksquare$


Sources
1990: Gerard J. Murphy: C*-Algebras and Operator Theory ... (previous) ... (next): $2.2$: Positive Elements of $C^\ast$-Algebras




