# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Dimension_of_Proper_Subspace_is_Less_Than_its_Superspace


It has been suggested that this page be renamed.In particular: Proper subspace of finite space. If the supperspace is infinite dimensional, then it may $H \subsetneq G$ but $\map \dim G = \map \dim H = \infty$.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.
Theorem
Let $G$ be a vector space whose dimension is $n$.
Let $H$ be a subspace of $G$.

Then $H$ is finite dimensional, and $\map \dim H \le \map \dim G$.


This page has been identified as a candidate for refactoring of medium complexity.In particular: This page contains two results. A separate page for $\map \dim H \le \map \dim G$ is needed.Go to it.Until this has been finished, please leave {{Refactor}} in the code.
New contributors: Refactoring is a task which is expected to be undertaken by experienced editors only.

Because of the underlying complexity of the work needed, it is recommended that you do not embark on a refactoring task until you have become familiar with the structural nature of pages of $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Refactor}} from the code.

If $H$ is a proper subspace of $G$, then $\map \dim H < \map \dim G$.


Proof
Let $H$ be a subspace of $G$.
Every linearly independent subset of the vector space $H$ is a linearly independent subset of the vector space $G$.
Therefore, it has no more than $n$ elements by Size of Linearly Independent Subset is at Most Size of Finite Generator.
So the set of all natural numbers $k$ such that $H$ has a linearly independent subset of $k$ vectors has a largest element $m$, and $m \le n$.

Now, let $B$ be a linearly independent subset of $H$ having $m$ vectors.
If the subspace generated by $B$ were not $H$, then $H$ would contain a linearly independent subset of $m + 1$ vectors.
This follows by Linearly Independent Subset also Independent in Generated Subspace.
This would contradict the definition of $m$.
Hence $B$ is a generator for $H$ and is thus a basis for $H$.
Thus $H$ is finite dimensional and $\map \dim H \le \map \dim G$.

Now, if $\map \dim H = \map \dim G$, then a basis of $H$ is a basis of $G$ by Sufficient Conditions for Basis of Finite Dimensional Vector Space, and therefore $H = G$.
$\blacksquare$


Sources

This page may be the result of a refactoring operation.As such, the following source works, along with any process flow, will need to be reviewed.When this has been completed, the citation of that source work (if it is appropriate that it stay on this page) is to be placed above this message, into the usual chronological ordering.If you have access to any of these works, then you are invited to review this list, and make any necessary corrections.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{SourceReview}} from the code.
1965: Seth Warner: Modern Algebra ... (previous) ... (next): Chapter $\text {V}$: Vector Spaces: $\S 27$. Subspaces and Bases: Theorem $27.13$




