# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Equivalence_of_Definitions_of_Generalized_Ordered_Space



Theorem
Let $\struct {S, \preceq}$ be a totally ordered set.
Let $\tau$ be a topology for $S$.
The following definitions of the concept of Generalized Ordered Space are equivalent:

Definition 1
$\struct {S, \preceq, \tau}$ is a generalized ordered space if and only if:

$(1): \quad \struct {S, \tau}$ is a Hausdorff space
$(2): \quad$ there exists a basis for $\struct {S, \tau}$ whose elements are convex in $S$.
Definition 2
$\struct {S, \preceq, \tau}$ is a generalized ordered space if and only if:

$(1): \quad$ there exists a linearly ordered space $\struct {S', \preceq', \tau'}$
$(2): \quad$ there exists a mapping $\phi: S \to S'$ such that $\phi$ is both an order embedding and a topological embedding.
Definition 3
$\struct {S, \preceq, \tau}$ is a generalized ordered space if and only if:

$(1): \quad \struct {S, \tau}$ is a Hausdorff space
$(2): \quad$ there exists a sub-basis for $\struct {S, \tau}$ each of whose elements is an upper section or lower section in $S$.


Proof
Definition $(1)$ implies Definition $(3)$
Let $\BB$ be a basis for $\tau$ consisting of convex sets.
Let:

$\SS = \set {U^\succeq: U \in \BB} \cup \set {U^\preceq: U \in \BB}$
where $U^\succeq$ and $U^\preceq$ denote the upper closure and lower closure respectively of $U$.
By Upper Closure is Upper Section and Lower Closure is Lower Section, the elements of $\SS$ are upper and lower sections.

It is to be shown that $\SS$ is a sub-basis for $\tau$.
By Upper and Lower Closures of Open Set in GO-Space are Open:

$\SS \subseteq \tau$
By Convex Set Characterization (Order Theory), each element of $\BB$ is the intersection of its upper closure with its lower closure.
Thus each element of $\BB$ is generated by $\SS$.


The term Definition:Generated as used here has been identified as being ambiguous.If you are familiar with this area of mathematics, you may be able to help improve $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by determining the precise term which is to be used.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Disambiguate}} from the code.If you would welcome a second opinion as to whether your work is correct, add a call to {{Proofread}} the page.
Thus $\SS$ is a sub-basis for $\tau$.
$\blacksquare$


Definition $(3)$ implies Definition $(1)$
Let $\SS$ be a sub-basis for $\tau$ consisting of upper sections and lower sections.
Let $\BB$ be the set of intersections of finite subsets of $\SS$.
By Upper Section is Convex, Lower Section is Convex and Intersection of Convex Sets is Convex Set (Order Theory) :

the elements of $\BB$ are convex.

This article, or a section of it, needs explaining.In particular: Link to theorem on why this is a basis.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by explaining it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Explain}} from the code.
But $\BB$ is a basis for $\tau$.
Therefore $\tau$ has a basis consisting of convex sets.
$\blacksquare$


Definition $(2)$ implies Definition $(1)$
Let $x \in U \in \tau$.
Then by the definition of topological embedding:

$\map \phi U$ is an open neighborhood of $\map \phi x$ in $\map \phi S$ with the subspace topology.
Thus by Basis for Topological Subspace and the definition of the order topology, there is an open interval or open ray $I' \in \tau'$ such that:

$\map \phi x \in I' \cap \map \phi S \subseteq \map \phi U$
Since $I'$ is an interval or ray, it is convex in $S'$ by Interval of Ordered Set is Convex or Ray is Convex, respectively.
Then:














\(\ds x \in \phi^{-1} \sqbrk {I'}\)

\(=\)







\(\ds \phi^{-1} \sqbrk {I' \cap \phi \sqbrk S}\)




















\(\ds \)

\(\subseteq\)







\(\ds \phi^{-1} \sqbrk {\phi \sqbrk U}\)










Because $\phi$ is a topological embedding, it is injective by definition.
So:

$\phi^{-1} \sqbrk {\phi \sqbrk U} = U$
Thus:

$x \in \phi^{-1} \sqbrk {I'} \subseteq U$
By Inverse Image of Convex Set under Monotone Mapping is Convex:

$\phi^{-1} \sqbrk {I'}$ is convex.
Thus $\tau$ has a basis consisting of convex sets.
$\blacksquare$


Definition $(3)$ implies Definition $(2)$
This follows from GO-Space Embeds Densely into Linearly Ordered Space.
$\blacksquare$





