# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Equivalence_of_Definitions_of_Algebraically_Closed_Field



Theorem
Let $K$ be a field. 
The following definitions of the concept of Algebraically Closed Field are equivalent:

Definition 1
The only algebraic field extension of $K$ is $K$ itself.

Definition 2
Every irreducible polynomial $f$ over $K$ has degree $1$.

Definition 3
Every polynomial $f$ over $K$ of strictly positive degree has a root in $K$.


Proof
Definition $(1)$ implies Definition $(2)$
Let $K$ be algebraically closed by definition 1.
Let $f$ be an irreducible polynomial over $K$.
By Principal Ideal of Principal Ideal Domain is of Irreducible Element iff Maximal, the ideal $\gen f$ generated by $f$ is maximal.
So by Maximal Ideal iff Quotient Ring is Field:

$L = K \sqbrk X / \gen f$ is a field
where $L$ is a field extension over $K \sqbrk X$.
Now:

$L = \set {g + \gen f: g \in K \sqbrk X}$
From Division Theorem for Polynomial Forms over Field:

$\forall g \in K \sqbrk X: \exists q, r \in K \sqbrk X: g = q f + r, \deg r < \deg f =: n$
Therefore:

$L = \set {r + \gen f: r \in K \sqbrk X, \deg r < n}$
By Basis for Quotient of Polynomial Ring, this has basis:

$1 + \gen f, \ldots, X^{n - 1} + \gen f$ span $L$.
Thus $L$ is finite.
By Finite Field Extension is Algebraic, $L$ is algebraic.
Also $K \subseteq L$.
So by hypothesis $K = L$.
This implies:

$\index L K = 1$
where $\index L K$ is the degree of $L$ over $K$.
Hence:

$n = \deg f = 1$
Thus $K$ is algebraically closed by definition 2.
$\Box$


Definition $(2)$ implies Definition $(3)$
Let $K$ be algebraically closed by definition 2.
Let $f$ be a polynomial in $K \sqbrk X$ of strictly positive degree.
From Polynomial Forms over Field form Principal Ideal Domain, $K \sqbrk X$ is a principal ideal domain.
From Principal Ideal Domain is Unique Factorization Domain, $K \sqbrk X$ is a unique factorization domain.
So $f$ can be factorized $f = u g_1 \cdots g_r$ such that:

$u$ is a unit
and:

$g_i$ are irreducible for $i = 1, \ldots, r$.
By hypothesis, $g_1$ has degree $1$.
Therefore by the Polynomial Factor Theorem $g_1$, and hence $f$, has a root in $K$.
Thus $K$ is algebraically closed by definition 3.
$\Box$


Definition $(3)$ implies Definition $(1)$
Let $K$ be algebraically closed by definition 3.
Let $L / K$ be an algebraic field extension of $K$.
Let $\alpha \in L$.
By hypothesis, the minimal polynomial $\mu_\alpha$ of $\alpha$ over $K$ has a root $\beta$ in $K$.
Therefore by the Polynomial Factor Theorem:

$\mu_\alpha = \paren {X - \beta} g$
for some $g \in K \sqbrk X$.
Since $\mu_\alpha$ is irreducible and monic it follows that:

$\mu_\alpha = X - \beta$
Also:

$\map {\mu_\alpha} \alpha = \alpha - \beta = 0$
so $\alpha = \beta$.
Therefore $\alpha \in K$.
Therefore $L = K$ as required.
Thus $K$ is algebraically closed by definition 1.
$\blacksquare$





