# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Field_Adjoined_Set


This article needs to be linked to other articles.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by adding these links.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{MissingLinks}} from the code.
Theorem
Let $F$ be a field.
Let $S \subseteq F$ be a subset of $F$.
Let $K \le F$ be a subfield of $F$.

The subring $K \sqbrk S$ of $F$ generated by $K \cup S$ is the set of all finite linear combinations of powers of elements of $S$ with coefficients in $K$.

The subfield $\map K S$ of $F$ generated by $K \cup S$ is the set of all $x y^{-1} \in F$ with $a, b \in K \sqbrk S$, $b \ne 0$.
$\map K S$ is isomorphic to the field of quotients $Q$ of $K \sqbrk S$.


Corollary
Let $A = K \sqbrk {X_1, \ldots, X_n}$ be the ring of polynomial functions in $n$ indeterminates over $K$. 
Let $B = \map K {X_1, \ldots, X_n}$ be the field of rational functions in $n$ indeterminates over $K$. 

Let $\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n \in F$.
Then:

$(1): \quad x \in K \sqbrk {\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n} \iff x = \map f {\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n}$ for some $f \in A$
$(2): \quad x \in \map K {\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n} \iff x = \map f {\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n}$ for some $f \in B$
$(3): \quad x \in K \sqbrk S \iff x \in K \sqbrk {\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n}$ for some $\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n \in S$
$(4): \quad x \in \map K S \iff x \in \map K {\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n}$ for some $\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n \in S$


Proof

This article, or a section of it, needs explaining.In particular: Most of this needs to be explained in more detail. Suffers from coherence issues.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by explaining it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Explain}} from the code.
Let $\set {X_s: s \in S}$ be a family of indeterminates indexed by $S$.
Let $\phi$ be the Evaluation Homomorphism such that $\phi \sqbrk {X_s} = s$.


This article, or a section of it, needs explaining.In particular: Can the above Evaluation Homomorphism link be replaced by Definition:Polynomial Evaluation Homomorphism?You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by explaining it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Explain}} from the code.
By Ring Homomorphism Preserves Subrings, $\Img \phi$ is a subring of $F$
This subring contains $\phi \sqbrk {X_s} = s$ for each $s \in S$ and $\map \phi k = k$ for all $k \in K$.
Moreover since it is obtained by evaluating polynomials on $S$ it is the set of all finite linear combinations of powers elements of $S$ with coefficients in $K$ as claimed.
All these linear combinations must belong to any subring of $F$ that contains $K$ and $S$ (otherwise it is not closed), so $\Img \phi$ is the smallest such subring.

By Universal Property for Field of Quotients, the inclusion $K \sqbrk S \to F$ extends uniquely to a homomorphism $\psi : Q \to F$, given by $\map \psi {a / b} = a b^{-1}$.
We have:

$\Img \psi = \set {a b^{-1} \in F: a, b \in K \sqbrk S, \ b \ne 0} \simeq Q$
The isomorphism comes from the fact that a field homomorphism is injective and the First Ring Isomorphism Theorem.
Thus $\Img \phi$ is a subfield of $F$ containing $K \sqbrk S$ and $K \cup S$.
Any subfield of $F$ containing $K$ and $S$ must contain $K \cup S$, $K \sqbrk S$ and all $a b^{-1}$ with $a, b \in K \sqbrk S$ (otherwise it would not be closed).
Therefore $Q \simeq \Img \phi$ is the smallest such subfield.
$\blacksquare$





