# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Kronecker%E2%80%99s_Theorem


Work In ProgressIn particular: 1. various technicalities ought to be included.  2. The second part of the proof should be separated out into a general result on bases of field extensions.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by completing it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{WIP}} from the code.
Theorem
Let $K$ be a field.
Let $f$ be a polynomial over $K$ of degree $n \ge 1$.
Then there exists a finite extension $L / K$ of $K$ such that $f$ has at least one root in $L$.

Moreover, we can choose $L$ such that the degree $\index L K$ of $L / K$ satisfies $\index L K \le n$.


This article, or a section of it, needs explaining.In particular: Work out exactly which definitions of Polynomial and Degree are appropriate here.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by explaining it.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Explain}} from the code.
Proof
Let $K \sqbrk X$ be the ring of polynomial forms over $K$.
By Polynomial Forms over Field form Unique Factorization Domain, $K \sqbrk X$ is a unique factorisation domain.
Therefore, we can write $f = u g_1 \cdots g_r$, where $u$ a unit of $K \sqbrk X$ and $g_i$ is irreducible for $i = 1, \ldots, r$.
Clearly it is sufficient to find an extension of $K$ in which the irreducible factor $g_1$ of $f$ has a root.

Let $L = K \sqbrk X / \gen {g_1}$, where $\gen {g_1}$ is the ideal generated by $g_1$.
By Principal Ideal of Principal Ideal Domain is of Irreducible Element iff Maximal, $\gen {g_1}$ is maximal.
Therefore by Maximal Ideal iff Quotient Ring is Field, $L$ is a field.
Moreover, writing the quotient ring epimorphism $\overline {\map p X} = \map p X + \gen {g_1}$ for $\map p X \in K \sqbrk X$:














\(\ds \map {g_1} {\overline X}\)

\(=\)







\(\ds \overline {\map {g_1} X}\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \overline {0_{K \sqbrk X} }\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds 0_L\)









So $\overline X$ is a root of $g_1$ in $L$.

It remains to show that $\index L K \le n$.
By the Division Theorem for Polynomial Forms over Field, every polynomial $\map p X \in K \sqbrk X$ can be written as:

$\map p X = \map q X \map {g_1} X + \map r X$
with $\map \deg {\map r X} < \map \deg {\map {g_1} X} \le \map \deg {\map f X} = n$.
Now we have by the definition of the quotient ring:














\(\ds \overline {\map p X}\)

\(=\)







\(\ds \overline {\map q X \map {g_1} X + \map r X}\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds \overline {\map r X}\)









So if $\map r X = r_0 + r_1 X + \cdots + r_{n - 1} X^{n - 1}$, we have:

$\overline {\map p X} = \overline {r_0 + r_1 X + \cdots + r_{n - 1} X^{n - 1} }$
Our choice of $p$ was arbitrary, so every polynomial can be written in this form.
In particular the set $\set {\overline 1, \overline X, \ldots, \overline {X^{n - 1} } }$ spans $L$ over $K$.
Thus by Generator of Vector Space Contains Basis, a basis of $L$ has at most $n$ elements.
That is, $\index L K \le n$.
$\blacksquare$


Source of Name
This entry was named for Leopold Kronecker.





