# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Principal_Ideal_of_Principal_Ideal_Domain_is_of_Irreducible_Element_iff_Maximal



Theorem
Let $\struct {D, +, \circ}$ be a principal ideal domain.
Let $\ideal p$ be the principal ideal of $D$ generated by $p$.

Then $p$ is irreducible if and only if $\ideal p$ is a maximal ideal of $D$.


Proof
Necessary Condition
Let $p$ be irreducible in $D$.
Let $U_D$ be the group of units of $D$.

By definition, an irreducible element is not a unit.
So from Principal Ideals in Integral Domain:

$\ideal p \subset D$

Suppose the principal ideal $\ideal p$ is not maximal.
Then there exists an ideal $K$ of $D$ such that:

$\ideal p \subset K \subset R$
Because $D$ is a principal ideal domain:

$\exists x \in R: K = \ideal x$
Thus:

$\ideal p \subset \ideal x \subset D$
Because $\ideal p \subset \ideal x$:

$x \divides p$
by Principal Ideals in Integral Domain.
That is:

$\exists t \in D: p = t \circ x$
But $p$ is irreducible in $D$, so $x \in U_D$ or $t \in U_D$.
That is, either $x$ is a unit or $x$ is an associate of $p$.
But since $K \subset D$:

$\ideal x \ne D$ so $x \notin U_D$
by Principal Ideals in Integral Domain.
Also, since $\ideal p \subset \ideal x$:

$\ideal p \ne \ideal x$
so $x$ is not an associate of $p$, by Principal Ideals in Integral Domain.
This contradiction shows that $\ideal p$ is a maximal ideal of $D$.
$\blacksquare$


Sufficient Condition
Let $\left({p}\right)$ be a maximal ideal of $D$.
Let $p = f g$ be any factorization of $p$.
We must show that one of $f, g$ is a unit.
Suppose that neither of $f, g$ is a unit.

First it will be shown that:

$\left({p}\right) \subsetneqq \left({f}\right)$
Let $x \in \left({p}\right)$.
That is:

$\exists q \in D: x = p q$
Then:

$x = f g q \in \left({f}\right)$
so:

$\left({p}\right) \subseteq \left({f}\right)$
Now suppose $f \in \left({p}\right)$.
Then:

$\exists r \in D: f = r p$
and so from $p = f g$ above:

$f = r g f$
Therefore:

$r g = 1$
and so $g$ is a unit.
This is a contradiction.
Thus:

$f \notin \left({p}\right)$
and clearly:

$f \in \left({f}\right)$
so:

$\left({p}\right) \subsetneqq \left({f}\right)$
as claimed.


This article contains statements that are justified by handwavery.In particular: "Clearly" needs to be replaced by a link to the definition which specifies this fact.You can help $\mathsf{Pr} \infty \mathsf{fWiki}$ by adding precise reasons why such statements hold.To discuss this page in more detail, feel free to use the talk page.When this work has been completed, you may remove this instance of {{Handwaving}} from the code.If you would welcome a second opinion as to whether your work is correct, add a call to {{Proofread}} the page.
Therefore, since $\left({p}\right)$ is maximal, we must have:

$\left({f}\right) = D$
But we assumed that $f$ is not a unit.
So there is no $h \in D$ such that $f h = 1$.
Therefore:

$1 \notin \left({f}\right) = \left\{{f h: h \in D}\right\}$
and:

$\left({f}\right) \subsetneqq D$
This is a contradiction.
Therefore at least one of $f, g$ must be a unit.
This completes the proof.
$\blacksquare$





