# 

Source: https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Pythagorean_Triangle_whose_Hypotenuse_and_Leg_differ_by_1



Theorem
Let $P$ be a Pythagorean triangle whose sides correspond to the Pythagorean triple $T$.
Then:

the hypotenuse of $P$ is $1$ greater than one of its legs
if and only if:

the generator for $T$ is of the form $G = \tuple {n, n + 1}$ where $n \in \Z_{> 0}$ is a (strictly) positive integer.


Proof
We have from Solutions of Pythagorean Equation that the set of all primitive Pythagorean triples is generated by:

$\tuple {2 m n, m^2 - n^2, m^2 + n^2}$
where $m, n \in \Z$ such that:

$m, n \in \Z_{>0}$ are (strictly) positive integers
$m \perp n$, that is, $m$ and $n$ are coprime
$m$ and $n$ are of opposite parity
$m > n$.


Necessary Condition
Let the generator $G$ for $T$ be of the form:

$G = \set {n, n + 1}$
Recall that from Solutions of Pythagorean Equation, $T$ is of the form:

$\tuple {2 m n, m^2 - n^2, m^2 + n^2}$
where $m, n \in \Z$ such that:

$m, n \in \Z_{>0}$ are (strictly) positive integers
$m \perp n$, that is, $m$ and $n$ are coprime
$m$ and $n$ are of opposite parity
$m > n$.
We are given that $n \in \Z_{>0}$ such that $m = n + 1$.
We have that Consecutive Integers are Coprime.
They are also of opposite parity.
Therefore the Pythagorean triple generated by $n$ and $n + 1$ is primitive.

So:














\(\ds 2 m n\)

\(=\)







\(\ds 2 n \paren {n + 1}\)




















\(\ds m^2 - n^2\)

\(=\)







\(\ds \paren {n + 1}^2 - n^2\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds n^2 + 2 n + 1 - n^2\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds 2 n + 1\)




















\(\ds m^2 + n^2\)

\(=\)







\(\ds n^2 + 2 n + 1 + n^2\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds 2 n^2 + 2 n + 1\)




















\(\ds \)

\(=\)







\(\ds 2 n \paren {n + 1} + 1\)









Thus it is seen that $P$ is a  Pythagorean triangle where:

one legs is of length $2 n \paren {n + 1}$
the hypotenuse is of  length $2 n \paren {n + 1} + 1$
Thus $P$ is a Pythagorean triangle whose  hypotenuse of $P$ is $1$ greater than one of its legs.
$\Box$


Sufficient Condition
Let the hypotenuse of $P$ be $1$ greater than one of its legs.

Let the legs of $P$ be $a$ and $b$.
Let the hypotenuse of $P$ be $h$ such that $h = b + 1$.
By Consecutive Integers are Coprime, $h$ is coprime to $b$.
Then by Elements of Primitive Pythagorean Triple are Pairwise Coprime, $P$ is primitive.

Because $h$ and $b$ are of opposite parity, it follows that $b$ is even.
Thus by Solutions of Pythagorean Equation:

$a = m^2 - n^2$
$b = 2 m n$
$h = m^2 + n^2$
for some $m, n \in \Z_{>0}$ where $m > n$.

Thus:














\(\ds h\)

\(=\)







\(\ds b + 1\)














\(\ds \leadsto \ \ \)





\(\ds m^2 + n^2\)

\(=\)







\(\ds 2 m n + 1\)














\(\ds \leadsto \ \ \)





\(\ds m^2 - 2 m n + n^2\)

\(=\)







\(\ds 1\)














\(\ds \leadsto \ \ \)





\(\ds \paren {m - n}^2\)

\(=\)







\(\ds 1\)





Square of Difference








\(\ds \leadsto \ \ \)





\(\ds m - n\)

\(=\)







\(\ds 1\)





Definition of Square Root, and we have that $m > n$








\(\ds \leadsto \ \ \)





\(\ds m\)

\(=\)







\(\ds n + 1\)









Hence the result.
$\blacksquare$


Sequence
The sequence of Pythagorean triangles whose hypotenuse and leg differ by 1 can be tabulated as follows:

$\begin{array} {r r | r r | r r r}
m & n & m^2 & n^2 & 2 m n & m^2 - n^2 & m^2 + n^2 \\
\hline
2 & 1 & 4 & 1 & 4 & 3 & 5 \\
3 & 2 & 9 & 4 & 12 & 5 & 13 \\
4 & 3 & 16 & 9 & 24 & 7 & 25 \\
5 & 4 & 25 & 16 & 40 & 9 & 41 \\
6 & 5 & 36 & 25 & 60 & 11 & 61 \\
7 & 6 & 49 & 36 & 84 & 13 & 85 \\
\hline
\end{array}$


Sources
1986: David Wells: Curious and Interesting Numbers ... (previous) ... (next): $13$
1997: David Wells: Curious and Interesting Numbers (2nd ed.) ... (previous) ... (next): $13$




